Baked Mac and Cheese

This quick and easy Baked Mac and Cheese with Velveeta is the perfect comfort food dinner! It's ultra creamy, cheesy, and a family favorite.


PREP TIME
8 minutes
COOK TIME
20 minutes
TOTAL TIME
28 minutes


Ingredients
3 cups elbow macaroni pasta (300 grams)
3 Tablespoons butter (42 grams)
3 Tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
Salt (optional, see notes)*
2 1/2 cups whole milk
8 ounces Velveeta (cut into cubes)
1 cup freshly shredded sharp cheddar cheese**


Instructions
Preheat the oven to 350 F (176 C) and lightly grease an 8x11 casserole dish.
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Cook the pasta to al dente (according to the package instructions). Once the pasta is finished cooking, drain it through a colander.
Heat a large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add the butter and swirl to coat the bottom of the pan. When the butter has melted, sprinkle the flour over the butter, and whisk to create a roux.
Slowly pour the milk into the roux while whisking constantly. Continue whisking until smooth.
Whisk in the onion powder, garlic powder, and black pepper. Bring to a simmer. Simmer the sauce until thickened while whisking constantly (about 3 minutes).
Add in the Velveeta cubes, and stir until the cubes have melted. 
Remove the sauce from the heat. Taste the sauce and add salt if you like.
Add in the cooked pasta, and gently stir until the noodles are evenly coated. Pour into the prepared casserole dish.
Top with the shredded cheese. Place the casserole into the preheated oven and bake until the cheese has melted (about 10 minutes) then broil until golden brown and bubbly (about 2-4 minutes - keep a close eye on it while it broils so that it doesn’t burn).


Notes
I did not add any salt to the sauce because I find Velveeta to be salty enough. If you prefer your food a bit saltier, add some after the cheese sauce has finished cooking, but before you add the pasta.

It’s important to use freshly shredded cheese. Pre-grated cheeses are coated in an anti-caking agent that stops them from melting smoothly, which will make the topping of your mac and cheese gritty instead of smooth.

If you want to make this recipe entirely on the stove top, reduce the milk by 1/2 cup, but follow the rest of the instructions as written. Just skip the portion where you add it to a baking dish, sprinkle cheddar cheese on top, and bake it.

https://keytomylime.com/baked-mac-and-cheese-with-velveeta-recipe/
https://keytomylime.com/wp-json/mv-create/v1/creations/357/print

